In this video I will be explaining about String.
This is a built in class in C++.
So already we have learned about string using array and a pointer.
But now this is a built in class available.
So here we will be getting a chance to learn what does it mean by class and what does it mean by an
object and what are member functions or what are operators upon an object?
So we will get the flavor of object orientation, no doubt.
In the further sections you will be learning about object orientation.
We will be writing our own classes by ourselves.
So for accessing this class we have to include this header file that is a string.
Now let us learn about this class strain.
First of all, this is a declaration of a variable of string.
So this variable is called as an object.
So when you declare an variable of type class, we use the term object instead of calling it as a variable.
It's better to call it as an object, so I'll declare it once again.
Here.
See if you say string SDR, an object of type string will be created.
So object is created.
Now this is the method of declaration.
But suppose if you want to initialize something like I want to initialize it with word.
Hello.
Then let us see what happens.
If you initialize this, then this object string will be created.
So this will be creating an array internally.
Right?
So we don't have to declare an array internally.
It will create an array.
And inside this, this word hello will be stored letter by letter.
Then afterwards null character, which we have already studied.
This is also inserted.
So this null character is also inserted.
So this string class is also having null character terminated or null character delimited.
So this is followed in string class also like we have already seen earlier.
Then one more important thing, I have created a bigger size array.
So yes, it will not create an exact size array that is required for a string, but it will create some
little larger size array.
Let us say, for example, it will create an array of size 16.
So there are a few more places here.
So the array size will be created larger than the string.
If your string itself does itself is larger, then it will create still bigger size array.
So it will make sure that there are few more spaces remaining after the string is stored, so it will
have some more capacity for storing or expanding the system.
So this array size, we call it, as capacity of first string and the number of letters that are stored
up to the null character that is large zero is called as length of a string, or it is also called as
size of a string.
We call it a size or length of a string.
So always capacity of an array or a string object will be bigger than the length of a string.
So what is the idea behind this one?
So it is like a buffer space or extra space if at all.
I'm modifying this a string and adding more alphabets to this one.
So there is space already available.
The next thing if suppose already.
I have a string and I'm trying to store something bigger than the size or the present capacity of a
string.
Then what will happen?
Will it accommodate?
Yes, it will increase the size of this array internally.
Internally it will do it.
How it will do it is a separate discussion.
So actually it will create a very bigger size array compared to this one.
Then it will take a fresh array and it will write down that string, a new string that is the one that
is bigger than 16.
So it will store it here.
So it will delete this.
So it will automatically manage the size of the same array cannot be increased.
Remember this new array has to be created and then the string will be stored so you don't have to worry
about it.
This class will have a built in mechanism for storing any size of string.
Whatever you are giving it will increase the capacity to a bigger size and then it will store a new
string.
And this will be a new string object.
Now, so the point here is this is a self manage string, so you don't have to worry about the available
spaces and you can grow or reduce the size of a string depending on the data that you are storing or
depending on the text that you are storing in this form.
Now, let's come back to this.
Here is a function or a method for reading a string from the keyboard like seen as a known object we
have been using.
It does use for getting a stream of characters from the keyboard and it will store it in style.
But the problem with this one is it will take only one word.
If you type multiple words, it will not take.
Then for reading multiple words, we have a global function available that is get line function is available
and in that we will pass that is string as well as the string object.
So this is the method of fitting it.
Now for displaying a string, just simply say see out str.
It will display a string.
So we have learned how to declare a string and how to initialize a string and how it will manage its
size.
Then also have shown you how to read a string and how to display it.
So we will see the demonstration of this one.
Here I have a skeleton of a program.
Already I have included string header file.
Now here I will declare a string.
String str assign.
Hello.
Now I will directly display it and let us see what happens.
String.
Yes, it is displaying here you can see that the string is displayed.
So this is declaration plus initialization.
And then also I have displayed it.
Now instead of initializing, I will read a string from keyboard.
So here I will say see out.
Enter a string.
Then by using scene I will take a string.
SDR.
Right.
Then afterwards I'm displaying it.
So here after displaying, I will also use NL.
So it goes to the next line.
Let us sit on this one.
Now here is asking for a string.
I will enter a string.
That is.
Hello.
I --.
Now I will enter a string.
That is hello world.
So it has taken only hello.
As I said that if there is a space, there are multiple words.
It will not take it.
Yes.
Now let me run once again and I will write something else.
I will say programming you.
It is taking randomly every time something.
There are no spaces, right?
It's a single word.
Remember this one?
There are no spaces.
Now let's see whether it takes or not.
It has taken.
It is displaying an entire string.
Whatever I have typed, it has taken that one.
So it means there is no fixed size of a string.
So whatever the string you want to store, whatever the size may be, it will increase its capacity
and try to accommodate that string.
So does a self manage one?
No.
Next thing I have told you that we can use a function that is get line for reading a string.
Get line say scene and then str.
Right now I can read multiple characters until I hit new line character.
Right.
Let us run this one.
Yeah.
Hello, all.
How are you?
So I have written multiple characters, multiple words.
Yeah, it has taken all the words is debtline will allow you to read sentences or passages, whatever
you want to type.
Now, let us do one more thing.
I'll write that line once again and I will try to read it.
Let us see whether it will read this one or not.
So it has to read like two times, right?
Hello, world.
The next thing you know, it is reading.
I'll say good morning.
Yes.
Flicking.
So get line is reading multiple words.
So it's not an issue like earlier in one of the video I have shown you that there is a problem while
reading a string.
So that same problem, does it exist or not?
Let us see.
So here I will use scene and let us see what happens.
Scene.
It will read only one word, no doubt.
Then again I will say scene.
So it should read two words, right?
The next year.
So one after another it should read two words.
It should read first word.
So what I'll do is I'll print this one, right?
I'll print this, then I get it.
Should read one more word and then again it should be in that one.
Let us run this one.
Hello.
Yeah, it is.
Waiting for the second string right now.
I will say war.
It's working.
So there is no problem here that is not taking slash and as a character for the next string.
Now if I run again and I will type two words, right.
Hello.
And then word.
Then first a string.
This 1/1 time it will take hello here.
And second time it will take Wally.
Let us run this.
Yeah, it has taken both the words First World has gone to first time reading and second word has gone
to second time reading.
So it doesn't allow multiple words.
So.
One word is taken by each scene.
So it's working here.
We don't have any problem of new line character.
So that's all in this video I've explained you about a string.
Then the next video we will see what are the member functions and how to use them, what are their operations?
So try this on your computer.